---
id: playback 
title: Playback
sidebar_label: Playback
---

Playing back a chase
--------------------

To fire a chase, raise the fader of the playback. (You can also use the
Flash/Swop buttons). The chase will start to run. The bottom line of the
screen relating to the playback fader shows the current cue number and
speed of the chase.

![](/docs/images/image246.png)

-   The HTP (intensity) channels in the chase will be controlled by the
    fader; if fade times are programmed, the fade will stop at the fader
    level. The other channels (LTP) will be set as soon as the fader
    moves above zero according to the fade times programmed in the
    chase. You can set the point at which the LTP channels activate from
    the User settings menu.

-   While the chase is running, the area of the screen above the wheels
    shows details of the chase steps.\
    ![](/docs/images/image247.png)

-   You can temporarily pause the chase by pressing the Stop button near
    the wheels. Press Go to resume playback.

There are many options you can set to determine the way the chase runs
and these are described in the rest of this chapter.

Connecting a chase for control
------------------------------

When you fire a chase, the wheels and Stop/Go buttons are automatically
allocated to control the speed and crossfade of the chase -- this is
called Connecting the chase. If you have more than one chase running,
you can choose which chase is connected to the controls using the
\<Connect\> button.

-   Connect a different chase to the controls by pressing \<Connect\>
    then the Swop button of the chase you want to control.

-   Disconnect a chase from the controls by double pressing \<Connect\>.

-   You can turn off the "Auto Connect" option in the User
    Settings/Wheels menu if you don't want to connect to a chase when
    you fire it. You will have to use the \<Connect\> button to control
    the chase if you do this.

-   There is a further option "Auto View on Connect" in the User
    Settings/Wheels menu which will automatically open the view window
    for a chase when you fire the playback. This is useful to keep the
    correct chase view open as you swap between chases.

-   Normally if you change the speed or crossfade of a chase, the new
    setting is saved. However you can set this change to be temporary,
    so that when the show is reloaded the speed and fade will go back to
    the previously saved settings. Go to User Settings (\<Avo\> + \[User
    Settings\], in the Times tab set the option "Connected View Sets" to
    "Temporary Speed". You can still save a temporary speed by pressing
    \[Save Temporary Speed\] in the Set Times menu.

Setting speed and crossfade for a chase
---------------------------------------

The left wheel is assigned to control the speed of the chase it is
connected to. The speed is shown in Beats Per Minute (BPM) on the
display. You can also enter a speed from the keypad as described below.
The last speed you set on the wheel is always remembered, you do not
have to tell Titan to save it.

Crossfade is the "slope" between cues; with a crossfade of 0, the
fixtures snap instantly to the next cue, but with a crossfade of 100,
the fixtures spend the whole cue time fading to the next cue. With a
crossfade of 50, the fixtures delay for half the cue time and fade for
the other half of the time.

![d4 xfade diag](/docs/images/image248.png)

You set the crossfade and speed as follows:

1\> Press \[Edit Times\] from the top level menu then the Swop button of
the chase.

2\> To set the crossfade, press \[Xfade\] and type the fade from 0 --
100. 0=no fade (the chase will "snap"), 100=max fade (the chase will
move continuously from step to step).

3\> To set the speed, press \[Speed\], type the new speed, then press
\<Enter\>. The speed can be set in Beats Per Minute (BPM) or seconds
depending on the User Settings.

There are other options you can set for the chase from this menu
including Fixture Overlap, which are described in the Timings section
9.5.1 on page 227.

You can set individual times for each cue in a chase and unlink cues
from each other so they wait for you to press the Go button. This is
done using the Playback View, or the \<Unfold\> function which is
described in section 9.3.2 on page 226.

You can select whether the chase speed is displayed in seconds or in
Beats Per Minute (BPM). Press \<Avo\> and \[User Settings\], then press
\[Tempo Units\] to set the option to \[Tempo Units Seconds\] or \[Tempo
Units Beats Per Minute (BPM)\].

You can also allocate a Speed Master to the chase which will allow you
to modify the chase speed during playback, see section 8.2.4 on page
202.

Manually controlling the steps of a chase
-----------------------------------------

You can pause a chase, if the chase is connected to the wheels, by
pressing the Stop button next to the wheels. Press the red \<Go\> button
to resume playback of the chase.

While the chase is stopped you can use the \<Prev Step\>/\<Next Step\>
buttons (← and → on some consoles) next to the \<Connect\> button to
move to the next or previous step. The programmed fade time will be used
when moving between steps, unless you enable the user setting \[Chase
Snap\], or press \<Snap\> button if the console has one.

You can also configure the blue and grey buttons of the playback handle
to be Stop and Go. This uses the Key Profiles function.

1\> Hold \<Avo\> and press \[Edit Current Key Profile\].

2\> If you are using the default Key Profile which is not editable, you
will be prompted to add a new profile.

3\> Press \[Chases\] then choose either the Blue key or the Grey key.

4\> Select Go or Stop from the list of functions. Then press \<Exit\>
and set the function for the other key if required.

5\> Press \<Exit\> to continue using the console.

Changing chase direction
------------------------

The \<Prev Step\>/\<Next Step\> (← and → on some consoles) buttons next
to \<Connect\> set the direction of the connected chase. If fitted, the
↔ double-ended arrow button sets bounce mode where the chase will run to
the end then reverse. The Review key sets the chase to Random.

Jumping to a step
-----------------

You can jump directly to a step in a chase by pressing \<Connect\>, then
typing in the desired step number, then pressing \<Enter\> or softkey A.
Alternatively at the top level menu you can type the step number then
press \<Connect\>.


