---
id: version-12.0-changing-the-patch
title: Changing the Patch
sidebar_label: Changing the Patch
original_id: changing-the-patch
---

Patch View
----------

The Patch View window gives a full overview of how all the fixtures in
your show are patched, and allows you to patch, repatch, legend,
renumber, invert, pan/tilt swap, freeze, exchange, park and view
fixtures. If you need to change the settings of multiple fixtures (for
example, changing the DMX address of several fixtures) then it's really
easy to do in one operation in the Patch View.

To show the Patch View window press \<View/Open\> then \<Patch\>, or use
the Open Workspace Windows menu command.

![Patch View](/docs/images/Patch-View.png)

**Fixture type:** lists the different types of fixture in your show.
Each fixture has a unique colour code. Click on these buttons to filter
the view so it only shows one fixture type.

**Line:** lists the available DMX output lines/universes. The blue
bar graph in the button shows how much of the line is used by patched
fixtures and how much is free. Click a button to show the details of
that line in the right hand side of the window.

The **coloured bar** at the top shows how fixtures are patched on the
selected output line, using the unique colour code for each type of
fixture. Click on a section of the bar to select those fixtures in the
grid below.

The **grid area** shows details for each patched fixture on the selected
output line. Some parameters are editable by clicking in the grid, then
the softkeys allow you to change the parameter.

> You can change parameters for multiple fixtures by dragging a selection box over the grid, or hold the Ctrl button on the keyboard and click on the required fixtures. Then edit the parameter on the softkeys, and use the \[Set\] context button or press \<Enter\> to update the selected fixtures.

-   You can switch off some of the display columns to make the Patch
    View simpler. Press the \[Choose Columns\] context menu button and
    then use the options on the softkeys to turn columns on and off.

-   You can add notes to each fixture in the Patch View. Click on the
    Notes field and enter text using the keyboard.

    The tabs across the top allow you to switch the window to
    Personality List (lists all fixtures available on the console), RDM
    (allows you to patch devices using RDM) and Attribute Behaviour
    (allows you to set invert, freeze, curve, and limit.
    See the [detailed fixture information section](./changing-the-patch.md#view-detailed-fixture-information) for Attribute Behaviour.

    A context menu option allows you to show or hide parked fixtures. If
    you show parked fixtures they will appear greyed out in the position
    they were originally patched.

View Detailed Fixture Information
---------------------------------

In the Patch View window click on the View button for the fixture you
wish to view, or press \<View/Open\> followed by a fixture handle. A
Fixture View window will open showing details for that fixture,
including the personality and mode used to patch, and the individual DMX
channel addresses for each attribute. Attributes can be inverted or
frozen by clicking on the checkboxes at the right hand side.

![Fixture View](/docs/images/Fixture-View.png)

If the fixture address is set using DIP switches, the console can show
you how to set the switches by clicking on the DIP Switches tab.

![Dip Switches](/docs/images/Dip-Switches.png)

There is also a Personality tab (not shown in the pictures) which shows
history information about the personality file for the fixture. This can
be useful for checking the version of the personality file.

Changing DMX Addressing using Patch View
----------------------------------------

You can easily change the DMX address of one or more fixtures from Patch
View. Select the DMX address cells you want to modify - draw a
selection box over multiple cells to select more than one.

![Change DMX Address](/docs/images/Change-DMX-Address.png)

Type the new address for the first fixture in the selection and press
\<Enter\> (using the format Universe . Address - if you miss out the
universe part it will stay unchanged).

All fixtures will be renumbered keeping the addressing offset between
the fixtures the same (in other words if each fixture takes 20 channels,
the addresses will be set with an offset of 20 channels between each
fixture).

The \[Swap Fixture Addresses\] softkey lets you swap the addressing
between two groups of fixtures. This operates in two modes, \[One For
One\] or \[Retain Layout\], which you can select by softkey after
pressing \[Swap Fixture Addresses\].\
Select one group, then press \[Swap Fixture Addresses\] and select the
target group. In One for One mode the target must be the same quantity
of fixtures or the console will display an error. In Retain Layout mode
the console will attempt to add or remove fixtures to get the same
quantity - if this conflicts with other fixtures it will give you the
options to \[Park Conflicting\] or \[Cancel\].

Changing DMX address using Patch menu
-------------------------------------

As well as using the Patch View screen, you can use the Patch menu to
re-patch a fixture to a different DMX address or a different DMX output
line. All programming is kept.

1. Press \<Patch\> (if you're not already in Patch mode).

2. Press \[Repatch Fixtures\].

3. Press the Select button of the fixture you want to change.

4. To change DMX press \[Address\], type the new address and press
enter. If this address is already in use, a warning icon will be shown.

![Address softkey](/docs/images/Address-softkey.png)

5. To change the DMX output line, press \[DMX Line=x\] and enter a new
output line number.

6. Press \<Enter\> or \[Repatch\] to confirm the change.

7. Repeat from step 3 if you want to change other fixtures.

-   You can "Park" the fixture using \[Park\]. This removes the fixture
    from the DMX output map, but all programming is retained. The
    original DMX line and address is remembered and you can restore it
    using the \[Unpark\] option.

-   If the new DMX address already has another fixture or dimmer patched
    on it, the console will warn you (unless this is disabled in 
    [User Settings](../system-settings/user-settings.md)). You can either press
    \[Select another DMX address\] to abort the change or \[Park
    Conflicting Fixtures\]. All programming for the parked fixture is
    preserved, but you need to repatch it to a free DMX address using
    the above procedure before you can use it again. If you press
    \[Always Park Conflicting Fixtures\] the console will park this and
    any future conflicting fixtures without warning you (you can change
    this option back in the User Settings).

![Fixture Conflict](/docs/images/Fixture-Conflict.png)

Setting Legends
---------------

You can set a legend for each fixture or dimmer you've patched which is
displayed in the touch button. This can be really useful to help you
identify the fixture.

1. At the main menu press \[Set Legend\].

2. Press the Select button for the fixture you want to legend.

3. Type the legend on the keyboard.

4. Press \<Enter\> when you have finished.

-   You can also choose to have a picture legend using the softkey
    options.

-   You can set the same legend for multiple fixtures by selecting a
    group of fixtures after pressing \[Set Legend\].

-   You can change the User Number for the fixture using the \[User
    Number\] softkey on the \[Set Legend\] menu. User Numbers are used
    when selecting fixtures from the keypad theatre-style.

-   You can automatically allocate User Numbers for multiple fixtures by
    selecting a group of fixtures, then setting \[User Number\]. The
    first fixture will have the User Number you entered, and the other
    selected fixtures will be given a number increasing by 1 for each
    fixture.

-   You can set a legend for the current page of fixtures using the
    \[Set Legend\] function from the main Program menu. The legend is
    shown on the touch button for the page and on the HUD.

Fixture Button Halo
-------------------

You can configure fixture buttons to have a "halo" colour which helps
you to find them quickly. Halo colours can be set manually for each
fixture (the default setting), or automatically by fixture type using
the same fixture colours used in the patch window..

To set a manual halo colour, click \[Set Legend\], click the fixture
button (or select multiple buttons) then select the \[Halo\] option. A
colour picker will open to let you set the colour, or pressing \[System
Colours\] will give you colour options on the softkeys. A \[Remove
Halo\] softkey lets you remove the colour.

![Fixture Halo](/docs/images/Fixture-Halo.png)

To enable automatic halo colours, hold \<Avo\> and select \[User
Settings\], then \[Handles\], then set Fixture Halos to \[Auto\].
Fixture buttons will then be coloured to match the automatic fixture
colours used in the Patch window.

Halo colours are also shown in the Intensity View and Show Library
workspace. In list views such as DMX, Channel Grid, Cue View and Palette
view the halo colours are shown as a bar to the left of the list - this
uses the user halo colour if one is set, otherwise the automatic colour
is used. The User Setting does not affect this display.

![Cue View](/docs/images/Cue-View.png)

DMX View Window
---------------

When you're having problems getting fixtures to work it can be useful to
see the actual DMX output values coming from the console. Press
\<View/Open\>, then \[Open Workspace Window\], then select \[DMX\].

![DMX Workspace Window](/docs/images/DMX-Workspace-Window.png)

The buttons on the left let you select the different output lines from
the console. Scrolling the window to the right shows more information
about each DMX channel.

Fixture Exchange
----------------

[Video covering Fixture Exchange](https://youtu.be/a_ES6UYQRJ4?t=20)

The Fixture Exchange function enables you to repatch fixtures in your
show using alternative fixtures, retaining important elements such as
cue times, shapes and legends. This is very useful for touring shows and
venues with a high turnover of events.

Fixture Exchange works best if you use Palettes to create your cues.
This allows you to adjust for position differences and so on by
reprogramming a few position palettes, rather than having to reprogram
every cue. Cues recorded with absolute values will need to be
re-recorded, preferably using palettes.

The pan, tilt and dimmer will always be preserved from one fixture type
to the next. For other attributes, the console will attempt to match the
functions between the fixtures, but you can change the details of this
using the Exchange Mapping function (see [next section](./changing-the-patch.md#exchange-mapping)). All programmed
items including palettes will be preserved, so the programming can be
easily adjusted by updating your palettes as normal.

Fixture exchange also gives you a powerful way to re-use an existing
show with new lights, so you can give yourself a programming head start
when faced with a new fixture.

-   It's a good idea to save your show before performing major changes
    such as fixture exchange. Should you change your mind or have
    problems, you will easily be able to return your show to its
    previous state.

    1. Enter patch mode by pressing \<Patch\>.

    2. Select the new fixture type you wish to use.

    3. Touch the select button of the fixture which is to be exchanged.

    4. The console will warn you that the fixture is in use. Press the
    \[Exchange Fixture\] option.

    5. Repeat from step 3 to exchange other fixtures with the same type
    of new fixture.

> After exchanging fixtures you need to update the palettes which used those fixtures. If you have trouble switching values off in a palette, set new values for all the attributes in the attribute group and re-record the palette. You should then be able to switch off an attribute group as required.

Exchange Mapping
----------------

When you exchange fixtures the console will attempt to map the functions
on the new fixture to the same functions on the old fixture so that your
show does not look any different with the changed fixtures.

However, this may not always work out quite right, so using Exchange
Mapping you can manually map functions between the fixtures. For example
this allows you to map the old gobos to similar new gobos even if they
are not in the same wheel position, and to ensure that rotation speeds
work the same.

Any changes made will apply immediately to the show. Mappings are
remembered and will be used whenever you exchange the same fixtures in
the future (though you can restore to factory mappings at any time
should you need to using the \[Clear All Mappings\] softkey).

![Exchange Mapping](/docs/images/Exchange-Mapping.png)

To set up mapping:

1. Press \<View/Open\> then Patch to show the Patch View screen.

2. Select the Exchange Mapping tab.

3. In the leftmost column, click the fixture type of the new fixture
which you have changed to.

4. The view shows the old fixture on the left and the new fixture on
the right with attributes listed for both fixture types. You can sort
the list either alphabetically or in DMX channel order using the
\[Sort\] context menu option.

5. Select an attribute to show the mapping. The mapped attribute on
both fixtures will highlight in light blue. Brown controls are not
mapped. The centre of the view shows the individual functions of the
selected attribute, and coloured lines show how these map between the
fixtures.

6. To map a function, click on a source function then a destination
function. Any previous mapping will be removed. You can map multiple
source functions to a single destination function.

7. To unmap a function, double click the source function. If there are
multiple sources mapped, double click the destination function.

8. To move a mapping, click the existing destination, then click the
new destination.

-   Where a fixture has been exchanged from more than one source fixture
    you can switch between them by selecting the relevant source fixture
    under the \'exchanged from\' column.

-   When you change the mapping, the \'Unsaved Changes\' options will
    pop up at the bottom of the screen. Here you can store the new
    mappings by pressing Apply, forget the changes by pressing Cancel or
    restore all mappings to Avolites factory default by pressing Reset.
    All these actions have to be confirmed by pressing the \[Confirm\]
    softkey.

![Exchange Mapping](/docs/images/Exchange-Mapping.png)

**Range mapping**

If the destination function has a range (for example 0-100%) you can
adjust the range to which the source function is mapped.

Where multiple source functions are mapped to a single destination
function with a range, separate destination buttons are shown allowing
you to set a different destination range for each source function.

To set the range, first select a destination function, then click the
Edit Ranges option at the bottom of the window. Then select the function
whose range you wish to change. (Note that it is only possible to adjust
the range of a mapped function. Any functions that are not mapped or are
not ranges will grey out). You can then adjust the maximum and minimum
values for the range either by wheel, by touching the wheel view on
touch consoles or by selecting the relevant softkey and entering the
value.

Once complete, click Apply then \[Confirm\] to commit the changes or
Cancel then \[Confirm\] to forget.

Updating Patched Personalities
------------------------------

This option allows you to update the personality for a fixture used in
your show. Normally a copy of each fixture personality in the show is
saved in the showfile, so updating the personality library on the
console does not update fixtures which are already patched.

-   It's a good idea to save your show before using Update
    Personalities, then you will be able to undo any changes if you
    change your mind or have problems.

    1. Enter patch mode by pressing Patch.

    2. Press \[Edit Fixtures\]

    3. Press \[Update Personality\] to update an individual fixture
    type, or \[Update All\] to update all patched fixtures to the most
    recent version in the library.

    4. If updating individual fixtures, the console shows you a list of
    personalities used in the show which can be updated.

    5. If updating individual fixtures, press the personality you want
    to update.

-   The new personality is loaded from the Titan/Personalities folder.
