---
id: arena
title: Arena
sidebar_label: Arena
---

The Arena has five main control areas:

![](/docs/images/image22.jpeg)

The **Touch screen** contains fixture, palette and group select buttons.
It also shows legends for the playback faders and shows the current menu
page and softkey buttons on the top right of the screen.

The **Playback faders** select and control cues and programs. The
**additional playback faders** provide further positions for storing
cues, programs, fixtures and other elements.

The **Mini screen** gives you another touch screen and additional
masters or playbacks using four rotary encoders. The **macro buttons**
allow storage of frequent key sequences.

The **Programming and setup controls** configure and program the console

![](/docs/images/image24.jpeg)

**The main controls**

The **Workspace windows** on the touch screen contain touch buttons for
fixtures, palettes, groups, playbacks, macros and more. You can also set
fixture attributes and show information windows.

The **System display and menu** area of the touch screen is the nerve
centre of the console and shows you what is going on. This part of the
display shows various screens of information depending on what you are
currently doing.

The **Menu Softkeys** (labelled A -- G) are used to select control
options. The display next to the buttons shows what each one will do.
The options for each key change depending on what the console is doing.
Softkey commands are shown in the manual with square brackets like this:
\[Edit Times\]

The **Mini screen** displays additional workspace windows. The four
**rotary encoders** act like normal handles and can be allocated as
masters or playbacks. Pressing the encoder is like pressing the blue
button on a handle.

The **Macro Buttons** store frequently used sequences of keypresses
which can be replayed with a single button press. Playbacks can also be
stored here.

The **Master fader** controls the overall output of the console. You
will normally have this set at Full. The **DBO button** allows you to
blackout the whole console.

The **Playback faders** are used to store and play back cues or chases.
The **Page Select buttons** let you change to a different page of
playbacks. The touch screen above the faders shows information about
each playback. The **Additional playback faders** in two banks of 15
allow you to store more cues and chases, or store palettes, groups, or
fixtures. Each bank of 15 has separate page select buttons and displays
above the faders show what they are.

The **Control wheels** are used to set control values (attributes) for
the fixtures, and to set chase speeds and fades. The touch screen above
the wheels shows information about the attributes being controlled.
Press the **Window Scroll Button** to switch the wheels into scroll mode
-- this is used to move a selection box around the screen when editing.

The **Numeric keypad** and other control buttons are used to enter
values and change controls on the console.

The **Function buttons** are used to carry out functions such as storing
cues, copying, saving to disk, etc. These buttons have lights on to
indicate when they are active.

The **Attribute select buttons** are used to select which attributes of
a fixture (e.g. colour, gobo, pan, focus) are going to be controlled
using the Control wheels. The buttons have lights on to show you which
attributes are active. The bottom (red) button allows you to locate
fixtures, which sets them to a known start position while programming.

**The back panel (shown split into 3 parts)**

USB and reset buttons\
![Arena\_revB\_backPanel](/docs/images/image26.jpeg)

Monitor and network\
![Arena\_revB\_backPanel](/docs/images/image27.jpeg)

DMX and MIDI\
![Arena\_revB\_backPanel](/docs/images/image28.jpeg)

All the connections required for the console are found on the back
panel. There are 8 DMX outputs on 5-pin XLR, MIDI in/out/thru on 5-pin
DIN, two desk lamp sockets, four Ethernet sockets from the internal
Ethernet switch, an Opticon Duo optical terminal for fibre network, a
DVI connector for external monitor, three USB sockets, SMPTE input,
audio input on 1/4 inch jack and remote trigger terminal on 1/4 inch
jack.

The Panel reset switch may be pressed to restart the front panel
electronics if something odd happens with the switches and faders. The
main processor will continue running but the DMX output will be
interrupted until the restart is completed.

The UPS battery disconnect switch cuts off the power to the console when
it is running on UPS, in the unlikely event of a complete lock up that
can\'t be recovered by holding down the power switch.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![exclamation](/docs/images/image5.png)   Using the battery disconnect switch will also power down the inbuilt network switch (TNS). Be aware of this if you are running from a backup console connected via the network switch.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Arena console has adjustable legs to angle the console for easier
operation. Lift the rear of the console and press the Leg Release button
at each side to set the leg to the desired height. Make sure you support
the rear of the console when adjusting the height.

![](/docs/images/image29.jpeg)
