---
id: pearl-expert-and-touch-wing
title: Pearl Expert and Touch Wing
sidebar_label: Pearl Expert and Touch Wing
---

![](/docs/images/image49.jpeg)

The Pearl Expert has four main control areas:

The **Master faders** set overall levels on the console

The **Preset faders/handles** select and control individual fixtures
(and you can store cues and chases here too)

The **Playback faders** and **rollers** select and control cues and
programs

The **Programming and setup controls** configure and program the console

![](/docs/images/image51.jpeg)

**The main controls**

The **Preset Faders** are used to control individual dimmer channels and
fixture intensities. Cues and chases can also be stored on these faders.
The 2 buttons below the faders are used to select and flash whatever is
stored on the fader. Each fader and buttons is called a \'Handle\'.

The **Mode select keyswitch** selects Programming, Run or System modes
of operation.

The **Page select rollers** let you select different pages of playbacks,
and you can write the playback names on the rollers so you know what's
in them. There are 2 rollers each controlling 10 playback faders

The **Master faders** control the overall output of the various parts of
the console. You will normally have these set at Full.

The **Playback faders** and flash buttons are used to play back cues or
chases you have programmed, when you are running a show.

The **Main display** is the nerve centre of the console and shows you
what is going on. The display can show various screens of information.

The **Control wheels** are used to set control values on the fixtures,
and to set chase speeds and fades.

The **Menu softkeys** (labelled A -- G) are used to select control
options. The display next to the buttons shows what each one will do.
The options for each key change depending on what the console is doing.
Softkey commands are shown in the manual with square brackets like this:
A \[Edit Times\]

The **Numeric keypad** and other control buttons are used to enter
values and change controls on the console.

The **Fixture Page** buttons are above the keypad, and allow selection
of 4 pages for the Preset Faders.

The blue **Command buttons** are used to carry out functions such as
storing cues, copying, saving to disk, etc. These buttons have lights on
to indicate when they are active.

The **Attribute select buttons** are used to select which attributes of
a fixture (e.g. colour, gobo, pan, focus) are going to be controlled
using the Control wheels. The buttons have lights on to show you which
attributes are active. The bottom (red) button allows you to locate
fixtures, which sets them to a known start position while programming.

A **QWERTY keyboard** and mouse touchpad is provided in a drawer on the
front of the console.

![](/docs/images/image53.jpeg)**The back panel**

All the connections required for the console are found on the back
panel. Most are self-explanatory.

-   The Panel reset switch may be pressed to restart the front panel
    electronics if something odd happens with the switches and faders.
    The main board will continue running but the DMX output will be
    interrupted until the restart is completed.

-   The USB reserve sockets and switches are for future expansion. The
    switches should be set to \'Normal operation\'.

**\
**![](/docs/images/image55.jpeg)**The Pearl Expert Touch Wing**

The optional Pearl Expert Touch Wing uses a touch screen and additional
wheels to provide the standard Titan interface for selecting fixtures,
palettes, groups and setting attributes. It can only be used with the
Pearl Expert and connects to the DVI port and the 9-pin D connector on
the rear of the console, just above the panel with the rear USB/network
sockets.

The main area of the Touch Wing shows up to 4 **workspace windows**. You
can select the content and configure the size and layout of these
windows using the Window Selection and Size/Position buttons below the
screen.

The arrangement of windows can be saved and recalled using the
**Workspaces** touch buttons on the right of the screen.

Some windows have additional command buttons which are displayed in the
**Context touch buttons** area on the top right of the screen when the
window is active.

The three **Attribute Wheels** take over attribute control from the
wheels on the console, which are then used for speed/fade control of
chases. Below the wheels the **Scroll Mode Button** to switch the wheels
into scroll mode -- this is used to move a selection box around the
screen when editing.

The **Attribute Display** shows which attributes are being controlled by
the wheels, and the current settings. Touching the roller graphic will
set the attributes to min or max.

Across the bottom of the screen there is an area showing information
about the **playbacks** on the current roller pages.
