---
id: version-12.0-quartz
title: Quartz
sidebar_label: Quartz
original_id: quartz
---

![](/docs/images/image34.jpeg)

The **Workspace windows** on the touch screen contain touch buttons for
fixtures, palettes, groups, playbacks, macros and more. You can also set
fixture attributes and show information windows.

The **System display and menu** area of the touch screen is the nerve
centre of the console and shows you what is going on. This part of the
display shows various screens of information depending on what you are
currently doing.

The **Menu Softkeys** (labelled A -- G) are used to select control
options. The display next to the buttons shows what each one will do.
The options for each key change depending on what the console is doing.
Softkey commands are shown in the manual with square brackets like this:
\[Edit Times\]

The **Playback faders** are used to store and play back cues or chases.
The **Page Select buttons** let you change to a different page of
playbacks. The bottom of the screen shows information about each
playback.

The **Attribute Control wheels** are used to set control values
(attributes) for the fixtures, and to set chase speeds and fades. The
bottom right corner of the screen shows information about the attributes
being controlled.

The **Attribute select buttons** are used to select which attributes of
a fixture (e.g. colour, gobo, position) are going to be controlled using
the Control wheels. The buttons have lights on to show you which
attributes are active. Attribute functions such as Fan and Shapes are
also controlled here.

The **Chase and Cuelist control buttons** allow you to start and stop
chases and cuelists, and move about in the list.

The **Numeric keypad** and other control buttons are used to enter
values and change controls on the system.

The **Function buttons** are used to carry out functions such as storing
cues, copying, saving to disk, etc.

The **Workspaces, Macros and Executers** buttons are programmable
buttons which can be used to store workspaces (screen layouts), button
macros or cues.

The **Workspace Window select buttons** are used to set which windows
are shown on the screen.

Near the power switch there is a small hole in the front panel. This is
the **Panel Reset Switch** which may be pressed using the end of a
paperclip or other pointy thing to restart the front panel electronics
if something odd happens with the switches and faders. The main
processor will continue running but the DMX output will be interrupted
until the restart is completed.

**Connections panel**

![](/docs/images/image36.jpeg)

All the connections are on the rear panel. Most are self-explanatory.
The power switch on the rear panel is an isolator for the power supply
and should not be used to turn the console off. Use the switch on the
front panel to turn the console on and off.

The rear USB connector may be used to connect a wing or an external
touch screen.
