---
id: tiger-touch 
title: Tiger Touch
sidebar_label: Tiger Touch
---
===========

> ![](/docs/images/image30.jpeg){width="6.516666666666667in"
> height="3.7125in"}

The Tiger Touch has four main control areas:

The **Touch screen** contains fixture, palette and group select buttons.
It also shows legends for the playback faders and shows the current menu
page and softkey buttons on the top right of the screen.

The **Playback faders** select and control cues and programs

The **Preset playbacks** give you additional (unpaged) playbacks and the
**macro buttons** allow storage of frequent key sequences.

The **Programming and setup controls** configure and program the
console.

(Note: The Mk.1 version of the Tiger Touch has a slightly different
front panel layout)

![](/docs/images/image30.jpeg)

**The main controls**

The **Workspace windows** on the touch screen contain touch buttons for
fixtures, palettes, groups, playbacks, macros and more. You can also set
fixture attributes and show information windows.

The **System display and menu** area of the touch screen is the nerve
centre of the console and shows you what is going on. This part of the
display shows various screens of information depending on what you are
currently doing.

The **Menu Softkeys** (labelled A -- G) are used to select control
options. The display next to the buttons shows what each one will do.
The options for each key change depending on what the console is doing.
Softkey commands are shown in the manual with square brackets like this:
\[Edit Times\]

The **Preset Playbacks** are used to store and play back cues or chases
that you need frequently. These playbacks are not changed by the page
select buttons, but you can assign macro buttons to change pages (see
section 8.1.2 on page 198).

The **Macro Buttons** store frequently used sequences of keypresses
which can be replayed with a single button press. Playbacks can also be
stored here.

The **Master fader** controls the overall output of the console. You
will normally have this set at Full. The **DBO button** allows you to
blackout the whole console.

The **Playback faders** are used to store and play back cues or chases.
The **Page Select buttons** let you change to a different page of
playbacks. The touch screen above the faders shows information about
each playback.

The **Mode switch** selects Programming, Run or System modes of
operation.

The **Control wheels** are used to set control values (attributes) for
the fixtures, and to set chase speeds and fades. The touch screen above
the wheels shows information about the attributes being controlled.
Press the **Window Scroll Button** to switch the wheels into scroll mode
-- this is used to move a selection box around the screen when editing.

The **Numeric keypad** and other control buttons are used to enter
values and change controls on the console.

The blue **Function buttons** are used to carry out functions such as
storing cues, copying, saving to disk, etc. These buttons have lights on
to indicate when they are active.

The **Attribute select buttons** are used to select which attributes of
a fixture (e.g. colour, gobo, pan, focus) are going to be controlled
using the Control wheels. The buttons have lights on to show you which
attributes are active. The bottom (red) button allows you to locate
fixtures, which sets them to a known start position while programming.

![](/docs/images/image32.png)

**The back panel**

All the connections required for the console are found on the back
panel. Most are self-explanatory.

-   The power switch above the mains inlet is used for isolating the
    power supply. Do not turn the console off using this switch.

-   The Panel reset switch may be pressed to restart the front panel
    electronics if something odd happens with the switches and faders.
    The main board will continue running but the DMX output will be
    interrupted until the restart is completed.


