---
id: titan-mobile 
title: Titan Mobile
sidebar_label: Titan Mobile
---

Titan Mobile is a USB wing which plugs into a PC or laptop (Windows 7 or
above, 64 bit) running the Titan software.

![](/docs/images/image38.png)

The **Playback faders** are used to store and play back cues or chases.
The **Page Select buttons** let you change to a different page of
playbacks. The bottom of the screen shows information about each
playback.

The **Attribute Control wheels** are used to set control values
(attributes) for the fixtures, and to set chase speeds and fades. The
bottom right corner of the screen shows information about the attributes
being controlled.

The **Attribute select buttons** are used to select which attributes of
a fixture (e.g. colour, gobo, position) are going to be controlled using
the Control wheels. The buttons have lights on to show you which
attributes are active. Attribute functions such as Fan and Shapes are
also controlled here.

The **Chase and Cuelist control buttons** allow you to start and stop
chases and cuelists, and move about in the list.

The **Numeric keypad** and other control buttons are used to enter
values and change controls on the system.

The **Function buttons** are used to carry out functions such as storing
cues, copying, saving to disk, etc.

The **Workspaces, Macros and Executers** buttons are programmable
buttons which can be used to store workspaces (screen layouts), button
macros or cues.

The **Workspace Window select buttons** are used to set which windows
are shown on the screen.

**The screen**

The system is designed to be used with a touch screen, but may be used
with a mouse - just click where the manual says \'touch\'. .

> ![](/docs/images/image40.png){width="5.96875in"
> height="4.168055555555555in"}

Four **Workspace Windows** may be shown on the screen. These contain
touch buttons to control fixture selection, palette selection, groups,
shapes, attributes, and so on. Visualiser may also be shown in a window.

The system **Menu softkeys** are down the top right hand side. You can
select these by touching or clicking them, or by using the menu buttons
on the right hand edge of the control panel.

**System prompts** are shown just to the left of the menu keys. Below
that are **Context buttons** which appear when relevant to the operation
you are doing.

The **Workspace Buttons** allow you to quickly select and save different
workspace screen layouts.

The **Wheels display** shows the current attributes available on the 3
wheels. The **Attribute status display** above that shows which
attributes are currently active or modified.

The **Playback information** shows the legend and other information
about the playbacks on the 10 faders.

> **Titan Mobile Connections panel**

![](/docs/images/image42.png)All the connections required for the
control panel are found on the right hand side. Most are
self-explanatory. The current version of the Titan Mobile panel has only
one USB socket rather than the original 2 shown in the picture above.

-   Normally the panel is powered via the USB connection. Some laptop
    USB ports may not provide sufficient power for the panel, in which
    case the DC power input can be used to connect an external 9V DC
    power supply, available from Avolites.

-   The PE socket is to allow you to ground/earth the panel, which can
    help resolve DMX problems if your laptop is not earthed.


